Thanh Nguyen
asked: "I'm extremely afraid of ghosts every night, and I
don't know why." Then, to the audience,
let me explain
where ghosts come from and what makes
us afraid. Well, because we've lived
for a long time, we've heard
stories about ghosts, so we're afraid of them.
First, we're afraid of ghosts because
we hear about them doing many things, so we're
afraid of them. From this fear of ghosts, we
imagine that during the day
we're walking on the same road,
but at night, those shadows of trees—
you see, right?—we
imagine something is in them. Either
someone is attacking us,
or there's a ghost or demon in the
shadows. That's why we're
afraid. But
now, we need to find the root of this fear.
This fear then transforms into
the imagined ghost in the tree, right?
It's because of fear that we
generate this
imagination. So, where does this fear originate?
It's because for many lifetimes,
we've caused all living beings to be
terrified. For example, imagine a chicken is
walking around like this, then it squawks, or it's playing,
and you run out and grab it, and it
squawks, squawks, squawks, squawks, and you cut its throat. Is
n't that scary? The root of its fear
is that we've made living beings afraid, and
our threats and intimidation are the
root cause. That's the root, everyone. That's what
gives rise to the idea of ​​fear. Only
when we are truthful and
kind can we transform this root of fear,
everyone. Because a thief is
n't afraid of ghosts, but he's afraid of the
homeowner catching him. Isn't that
still fear? So, when we stop being afraid, it's
when we
cultivate a kind and virtuous heart. Studying
Buddhist teachings means understanding what is evil and what is good, what
should be done and what
shouldn't be done, until our hearts are
pure and virtuous. Then we'll stop being afraid. When we look at a tree,
we'll know it's a tree, not think
it's a ghost. But as long as we still have the
root of fear...  This evil seed in
your heart cannot be stopped from thinking about it.
You keep saying you don't think about it, but
imagine a tree suddenly having something fly
out of the bush, and then... Oh my god!
Right? Because this seed of fear
will imagine everything. The evil seed
in your heart will imagine things. To get
rid of it, you must practice to get rid of the
evil seed in your heart. Don't pretend you don't see it. Look, there's no
ghost in that bush, but because you have
n't seen it in many lifetimes, you've seen it but said you didn't
see it, so a ghost will appear
in your mind. Do you understand? And
sometimes a real ghost will appear and
tease you. That's your own karma,
so you must practice virtue to get rid of the
imagined fear and the real ghost. (
From Bong Min
Lo) Dear teacher, lately I've been having nightmares
between 1 and 2 AM and I don't dare sleep
anymore. I'm asking if I'm being teased by ghosts or demons?
Thank you, teacher. Respectfully, to the
audience, the Buddha's teachings say that a person who has nightmares at night...
Unstable sleep is often harmed by
demons, spirits, and non-human beings. This
aligns with the Buddha's
teachings in the scriptures: those who practice giving the gift of
peaceful sleep should dedicate their merit
to them. Giving
with kind words is also giving,
Buddhists. It's not
just about giving money. We should do it ourselves
and encourage others to do it, but
remember to advise those who are receptive.
Otherwise, you might go home, see
your parents killing living beings, and say, "You killed them,
and you're suffering the consequences!" That's
not right. That is, when you give,
you must
observe the recipient's acceptance. That's
why we call it giving as a wish: if
they accept it and ask you for
words, you give with words; if
they need work, you give
with work; if they need material things,
you give material things according to your ability. It's
not like giving
medicine and then giving it to
them;
if they need money and you don't have
it.  So, you just do the work, don't
preach to people because at that time
they don't need it. Remember, giving alms must be done
in a way that fulfills their wishes.
From your friendliness,
people will gradually trust you, and then
you can give them the Buddha's teachings.
Yes, another question.
Thao Le's username: Dear Ms. Yen, I dreamt that
many people were chasing me, and I kept flying from
one rooftop to another and then
falling down. Could you tell me if I
am experiencing any karmic obstacles? Respectfully,
in the
Vula Sutra, the Buddha taught about King Bimbisara.
That night, he saw demons and
cried a lot. It was because of a past life connection
between him and these demons.
The Buddha advised him to make offerings and
accumulate merit. He made offerings
to the Buddha and the Sangha, and all
those demons were reborn in heaven. So, in
this case, if you experience something like
that, the next morning you light an
incense stick and say, "I respectfully ask the Buddha,
I have heard the Buddha's teachings, and now
I have this phenomenon..."  I don't
know what kind of connection I have with all of
them, and in my dreams,
in many lifetimes, we have done things
together. Now, with sincere hearts, I
offer this merit and dedicate it to them, praying that they may
also return to the Three Jewels, practice
diligently, and attain liberation. Then,
following the Buddha's teachings, I will transform. I
have a question: I am always filled with
fear and anxiety. I don't know what
I'm afraid of, but I always feel
very scared. I hope you can guide me.
Dear friend, you should do
this to cultivate yourself in the present moment.
First, before undertaking any
task, you should think about
how you will proceed and carry it out. That
is, in all
your tasks, for example, in a conversation, when
you meet someone, you should
think about what you will
say, what benefits you will bring to the conversation,
and you should also try to determine whether this person
is evil or good. If they are
evil, what will they say,
and what should you respond to?  You
shouldn't continue that practice, so right
now you must cultivate yourself like this. You must be
clear-minded, and furthermore, you
must do good deeds, that is, do
many good deeds. And furthermore, you
must learn the art of speech. When you see and hear lies, you
must speak truthfully. You must speak the truth, then
your mind will be at peace. Speak
truthfully because often when you see and hear lies,
your mind worries,
right? Because when you lie, you can hide the
head but leave the tail exposed. So you must always be
vigilant, checking if what you are guarding
will slip out. The
first thing is to be
truthful, truly truthful. Be truthful
to yourself, be true to yourself. What
you have done, what is
right, what is wrong. If you are wrong to someone, go and
apologize. And if what is right, just be at
peace.
[Music]
Oh